---
title: "Visualizing complex feature interactions and feature sharing in genomic deep neural networks"
authors: "Ge Liu, Haoyang Zeng, and David K. Gifford"
journal: "BMC Bioinformatics"
journalspecific: "20, 401 (2019)"
doi: "10.1186/s12859-019-2957-4"
arxiv: ""
ext: ""
img: Liu2019.webp
date: "2019-07-19"
year: "2019"
---

#### Background

Visualization tools for deep learning models typically focus on discovering key input features without considering how such low level features are combined in intermediate layers to make decisions. Moreover, many of these methods examine a network’s response to specific input examples that may be insufficient to reveal the complexity of model decision making.

#### Results

We present DeepResolve, an analysis framework for deep convolutional models of genome function that visualizes how input features contribute individually and combinatorially to network decisions. Unlike other methods, DeepResolve does not depend upon the analysis of a predefined set of inputs. Rather, it uses gradient ascent to stochastically explore intermediate feature maps to 1) discover important features, 2) visualize their contribution and interaction patterns, and 3) analyze feature sharing across tasks that suggests shared biological mechanism. We demonstrate the visualization of decision making using our proposed method on deep neural networks trained on both experimental and synthetic data. DeepResolve is competitive with existing visualization tools in discovering key sequence features, and identifies certain negative features and non-additive feature interactions that are not easily observed with existing tools. It also recovers similarities between poorly correlated classes which are not observed by traditional methods. DeepResolve reveals that DeepSEA’s learned decision structure is shared across genome annotations including histone marks, DNase hypersensitivity, and transcription factor binding. We identify groups of TFs that suggest known shared biological mechanism, and recover correlation between DNA hypersensitivities and TF/Chromatin marks.

#### Conclusions

DeepResolve is capable of visualizing complex feature contribution patterns and feature interactions that contribute to decision making in genomic deep convolutional networks. It also recovers feature sharing and class similarities which suggest interesting biological mechanisms. DeepResolve is compatible with existing visualization tools and provides complementary insights.